I'm really excited to announce our next
speaker uh Alice Yuan Zang who is
visiting who is coming to us from Los
Angeles
sorry guys
what did I what did I do here I need an
escape strategy for myself holy moly
okay guys I'm super excited to announce
Alison Zang who is a media artist
researcher and educator based between
Berlin and Los Angeles uh her
transdisciplinary practice operates on
cyclical and intergenerational time
along the peripheries of colonialist
imagination she works to bring a
technology Down to Earth by devising
Collective experiments in ancestral
remembering interspecies pedagogy and
networked solidarity she's also the
founding Steward of the virtual Care lab
a d-web fellow and a recent Resident at
oxalon take it away Alice
thank you
okay
hi everybody
I hope you all had a good lunch and are
feeling well rested and inspired and
excited to be here today I'm feeling
really
resonant with a lot of the ideas that we
talked about this morning as well and I
think you'll find that what I have to
tell you is a bit of a continuation of
that
um
and an unraveling
um yeah my name is Alice my Chinese name
is Zhang Yuan I was born in Dalian China
and moved to Suburban Los Angeles when I
was nine with my parents and so first
generation immigrant and I have a
dogmatic Buddhist mother who shows up a
lot in my work gives me a different
perspective on things that you might
pick up on
um yeah and I'm trying to see what's
going on I'm trying to understand what's
going on out here I'm trying to
understand how we are relating to the
world and how technology helps us do
that
um or shapes our relations in particular
ways and
um and I'm interested in agency and
Collective agency and learning how to do
things together
and in this bridging of the bitsphere
and biosphere which comes from the
experimental physicist Ursula Franklin
who in her lectures in 1989 called the
real world of technology called this
task of Bridging the sphere and
biosphere the struggle for community in
the broadest ecological context
so I'm out here trying to do that
okay not to scare you a little bit right
from the bat
as a media artist I engage with various
digital Technologies to meet people
where they are and to tell stories and
to stay connected and along the way I've
grown more aware of these Technologies
and the fact that they are not neutral
across technocopolis Industries and most
recently in Ai and blockchain and
geoengineering
there's been a lot of exacerbation and
acceleration of race and class-based
oppression
access and especially agency are
reserved for a few to plan for the whole
world over while the rest bear the
burden of sustaining these increasingly
complex systems technology is the active
decision of how we facilitate our
relations with each other and the
material conditions of the earth and
this dominant Western world view aims to
use technology to conquer the future
under the unjust dependencies of
globalizing in infrastructure privilege
orchestrates extraction across ever more
anonymized hands and lands and bolts the
door when responsibilities come knocking
but the climate is borderless in its
wrathful demands of more honest
accounting
foreign
I would love to invite you to take this
moment to just observe the aliveness of
your body
every time I talk about this I feel
really riled up I feel a lot of grief
and a lot of emotions that's quite
that's coming through right now as well
but how does it feel to breathe
can you remember
the histories of this body
where it has been through time in this
life in previous ones
can you notice where
you feel tender where you carry
grief where you might have chronic pains
or disabilities
and
the memories of all of yourselves
that linger in your body the relations
of what you eat your gut microbiome
processing that right now your lunch
where you've been where you come from
where you will go and I invite you also
as you do your body scan to move your
attention through to the bottomless part
of your body and extend Roots down
through this building through the
scaffolds and the foundations and fine
soil it's down there
and
when you find the soil can you remember
that it is the epidermis of the
ecosystemic body and it is still here in
very direct connection with the roots
that we're sending and can you feel the
aliveness of the soil and how our own
aliveness comes from the soil and the
gift it is
to be able to return
to the soil and be transformed
our challenges require a liberation of
the imagination so this year I began to
host technological grief rituals that
some of us have been to
as a way to understand more deeply the
material relations that we have that we
depend on with our infrastructure what
is the anatomy of this infrastructure
where do our devices our routers our
servers our mining rigs our data centers
our cables and energy grids come from
and where will they go when they die
the carbon footprint of the internet has
now surpassed that of the airline
industry ironically and more than half
of the electricity at least from the US
is still derives from fossil fuels
we often forget that this feel is not
simply a resource but actually the
remains of carbon Rich trees and
creatures you can see here that were
once alive in the Carboniferous era 300
million years ago
likewise pulled out of the ground under
extractive labor conditions the metals
and minerals that make up our
Electronics have always been there in
one shape or another and underground for
a long time and so in a way we are when
we're mining we're borrowing deep
geological time
to grieve the material of our
technological infrastructure is to
recognize the life in them and in
grieving we would like to wish them an
afterlife yet nothing that makes up this
metallic sprawl of the last few decades
will decompose in a million years
meanwhile the ghosts of plant
obsolescence linger in the water in the
soil and the air and of course in our
bodies
so I would like to invite you again to
remember how it feels like to breathe
across this ecosystemic body to
inhale
and exhale and come back again
we often dismiss long-standing practices
of grief as
stasis
any criticism to techno-capitalist
growth is easily cast aside as leadism
in its connotation of being against the
era of progress or change itself
but in a moment like this we must ask
ourselves where are we so desperate to
go or is the logic of the clock broken
counter to linear progress and
intergenerational framework and
ancestral one recognizes that the Earth
operates not on a longer time scale than
an agile Sprint but a cyclical one
altogether
as the world has always changed and
continues to change and perhaps more
hostile ways we need to recalibrate our
understanding of what is needed for the
ongoing renewal of this ecosystemic body
and as mcluhan says technology as an
extension of the body
I would like to propose this
intergenerational way of working on the
world which does not focus on building
but on healing
a worm feasting on food scraps knows
better than anyone that death itself is
a beginning and grief poses an important
inquiry into the material relations
across everything that makes up our
technological lives and with that the
possibility to re-relate anew
traditional healing methods teach us to
stay attuned to where that's this
ecosystemic body is out of balance
and find pressure points for undoing
harm
and breath itself is a keeper of
cyclical time
this reminds us to notice just how
permeable we are and how we are very
much in the motion of things
technological intergenerational
technology does not offer a stable
solution for a sterile world but rather
the Seas for a living one
intergenerational technology might feel
like a recipe it might feel like an
encryption of knowledge that one can
only enact in actual practice over and
over and over again a commitment
intergenerationality is as resilient as
we are alive it is the memory that is
archived in our bodies through our
stories by our situated long-term
accountability with each other that is
the definition of community that I
strive for
to weave intergenerational technology is
to in a way hyperlink time grafting
long-standing wisdom onto contemporary
struggles
I'm posing intergenerational technology
as a prompt as an invitation and these
are some things I can think of that
might count as intergenerational
technology
and some principles and some movements
that are already ongoing and that are
really led by folks in crisis that are
you know putting together different uh
infrastructure and really upskilling
together that are led by the global
majority a lot of really interesting
projects out there that are not really
recognized as emerging technology but
are very much crisis responsive that are
very much communal and collectively
stewarded and consentful
leaving the seams on technology so that
we know how to mend so that we know how
to work in cycles and bring things back
to life
anti-surveillance and Community
protection that is not focused on just
building a way out of policing or
carceral attack but really first and
foremost it is a fight and it is to
protect you know communities that are
marginalized and that in itself is also
the work
other interesting projects like
borrowing open source licensing and the
definition of that into agriculture into
food Justice and what happens with our
seas and how can we take them back into
our own hands and keep them open
other things a mutual Aid fund is an
intergenerational technology a harvest
song is an intergenerational technology
a darning needle is an intergenerational
technology
making food together
is an intergenerational technology
these are the emerging technologies that
I'm interested in and these are the
emerging technologies that need our
Collective attention they need a
diversion of power
reparations of capital and wholehearted
long-standing conviction
and here's where you can find more of my
work and you can reach out directly if
you're curious to chat more yeah
thanks for being here
[Applause]
Alice thanks so much
um something that was really resonating
me with as you as he was speaking as you
was speaking as you were speaking
um was the uh
the the nature of cyclical action and
change that you're describing a cyclical
process and something that Marshall
mcluhan said
um was that the content of any new or
that the content of any new medium is
always the old medium
um kind of uh television saw or a movies
swallowing books uh television
swallowing movies and so on and so forth
now we have Tick Tock and be real and
everything else that I like to waste my
time with
um so I'm wondering how how you know
this notion of of media moving through
these different phases and kind of
consuming each other how does that
resonate with you especially given your
practice as a media artist using a lot
of these these Technologies
yeah thank you for that question
um
I well I would first like to just bring
back this idea of crafting
um I think for especially a lot of
oh yeah a lot of folks and you know are
healing practices of diasporic
remembering and so on it's there's been
a reverence to that and so in terms of
even just grief practices
um you know I'm improvising a lot of the
times and so medium in itself is very
much this alive thing
um and I think it's very much true that
the message for me is how to how to
practice this and
um you know for example with the grief
rituals how to hold space and how to
keep this alive
and that is the the thing
um but yeah I also yeah I think there's
a lot of this
um the reverence the experimentation and
the adaptation you know of
um being in whichever particular
environment and with whatever language
we have to work with
um you know with whatever materials and
capacities we have the only thing that
really grounds it for me I think is the
need like what is how are we asking and
you know acknowledging and tending to
the needs that we have
um across all levels of material knees
belt so the spiritual needs and communal
needs but also how are we paying
attention to the epicenters of
Oppression
and really recognizing the web of
responsibilities that were very much
tied into
now with you know globalization I think
it's fair to say that if you know if
you're not in the epicenters of question
you may very well be playing a part in
accelerating the machine of it and so
yeah there's there's a lot of you know
the knees to reground in and then the
mediums follow
absolutely
um and I went you know I was also you
know thinking through
um your work that's in the show here in
the space
um in the back of the room we have
autophagy on the floor it's an augmented
reality piece an Open Garden on the wall
which was a durational performance
um and I wanted to ask you a little bit
about you know your practice about
collectivity and community and
organizing and labor and agency I know
that you recently completed a large
research project thinking through Dao
structure and different ways the
decentralized Technologies might be
involved in this equation
um and I was wondering if you might be
so kind as to share with us some
insights that you've learned from this
research or any
um I guess practices that felt really
holistic and and fruitful for you versus
things that were damaging or restrictive
yeah thanks for teeing that up
um so as Wade mentioned in the past uh
more than half year now I've been doing
research on becoming infrastructure and
in particular I have been spending time
looking at what the heck is going on
with web3 what does it ask of us what
are our responsibilities there um what
questions is it posing and I find what
free to be really fascinating I often
say that it's for me a journey of
exorcisms uh to just really reckon with
it and also that it assigns us a lot of
homework as in web3 is really
interesting and that I look at it not as
just the you know the the more uh vocal
and loudest and well-funded kind of uh
cultural imagination and the direction
of that but I'm interested in the cracks
in there what doesn't work but what are
the projections that we're coming in
with that actually point back to our
needs right the anxieties that are there
around Financial stability especially as
artists around you know what to do with
the climate and can we bring carbon
markets onto the blockchain and will
that get us there you know that like
there's all of these questions you know
around Collective organizing as we kind
of
um lose Faith a bit more in our state
and you know uh like traditional
institutions and so I'm interested in
those questions and um and the knees
behind them but I'm not so convinced
about exactly you know the the web free
framework of how to get there I think
it's you know coming from a
um yeah like a traditional medicinal
approach it's actually the root of the
you know the illnesses are deeper and we
have to invest in material change at
that level
so much Alias appreciate you